# Analysis

<div style="text-align: center;">

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8WK7Z_l15yM?si=Zrjvv7t2cXXKMcHX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</div>

!!! info "What you need to know"

    You must be able to identify the end-user and functional requirements of a database problem that relates to the implementation at this level.

When designing a database, it's important to understand what the people using the system need it to do. This means identifying:

- **End-user requirements** – the tasks users need to complete
- **Functional requirements** – the data, tables, keys, relationships and actions the database needs so those tasks can happen

## End-user Requirements and Functional Requirements

Before creating a database, we must find out what the people who will use it need to do. These are called the __end-user requirements__:

* the users are the people who will use the database
* their requirements are the tasks they expect to complete using the database
* these are usually written from the user's point of view

We also need to identify what the database must contain and do to make these tasks possible. These are the __functional requirements__:

* the entities, attributes, primary keys and foreign keys needed in the database
* the searches, sorts and calculations the system must carry out
* these are usually written from the designer's point of view

The difference can feel subtle at first:

| Requirement type | Focus | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| End-user requirement | What the user needs to do | A user needs to search for a record **(one complete row of information in a table)**. |
| Functional requirement | What the database needs to store or do | The database must include fields **(single pieces of information in a table)** that can be searched. |

During the analysis stage of Database Development, identifying these requirements helps to:

* clarify the design of the database 
* identify the features that need to be implemented
* evaluate whether the system is fit for purpose after development is complete

## What to Look For

For a National 5 database question, end-user requirements are often found in comments from the people who will use the database.

!!! tip "Top Tip"
    For end-user requirements, look for phrases such as "I need to..." or "The user needs to be able to...".

Functional requirements describe how the database will support these tasks. This usually means identifying:

* suitable entities or tables **(the main things the database stores, such as books or pupils)**
* attributes or fields for each table **(the details stored about each thing, such as title or surname)**
* primary keys **(a unique ID for each record)**
* foreign keys used to link related tables **(IDs that connect records in different tables)**
* searches, sorts or other actions the database must perform **(what the database has to do with the stored data)**

Some actions may look similar to the end-user requirements. The difference is the viewpoint:

* an __end-user requirement__ says what a person needs to do
* a __functional requirement__ says what the database must store, link, search, sort or calculate to make that task possible

___

By clearly identifying both types of requirement, you can make sure your database is designed with the right users, data and tasks in mind. This helps avoid problems later in development and makes it easier to check whether the finished database is fit for purpose.

!!! summary "Summary"

    During analysis, you identify who will use the database and what they need to do. End-user requirements describe the tasks users want to complete. Functional requirements describe the tables, fields, keys, relationships and actions the database must include to make those tasks possible.
