# Attributes

Once the entities have been chosen, the next step is to decide what information needs to be stored about each one.

An **attribute** is a piece of information about an entity.

In a database table, each attribute usually becomes a **field**.

## Examples

If the entity is `Film`, useful attributes could be:

* `FilmID`
* `FilmTitle`
* `AgeRating`
* `RunningTime`

If the entity is `SportsClubMember`, useful attributes could be:

* `MemberID`
* `Forename`
* `Surname`
* `Team`
* `DateJoined`

## Attribute to Field

Attributes become the field names in a table.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Entity</th>
    <th>Attributes</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Film</td>
    <td>FilmID, FilmTitle, AgeRating, RunningTime</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SportsClubMember</td>
    <td>MemberID, Forename, Surname, Team, DateJoined</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Entity, Attribute and Record

These words are closely connected:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Database Word</th>
    <th>Meaning</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Entity</td>
    <td>The thing the database stores information about.</td>
    <td>Film</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Attribute</td>
    <td>A detail about the entity.</td>
    <td>FilmTitle</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Record</td>
    <td>One complete entry in the table.</td>
    <td>Paddington 2, PG, 103 minutes, 2017</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## From Problem to Table

Look at this sentence:

> "A cinema wants to store information about each film. For every film, it needs the film title, age rating, running time in minutes and release year."

The entity is:

* `Film`

The attributes are:

* `FilmTitle`
* `AgeRating`
* `RunningTime`
* `ReleaseYear`

A record would store the details for one film.

!!! tip "Exam Tip"

    An attribute is a detail about an entity. In a database table, attributes become fields.
