# SQL Insert/Update/Delete Tasks

## Task One

[:material-database: Open the SQL workspace](https://onecompiler.com/sqlite/44rmmchz9){: .inline-launch__link target="_blank" rel="noopener" }

Copy each SQL query below, run it, and add a screenshot of your output to your notes.

a) **Insert Record**

On the `Pupil` database, add a new student with the following SQL.

```sql
INSERT INTO Pupils
VALUES (6, 'Jack Lawrie', 18, 'Shiel');
```

b) **Update Record**

On the `Pupil` database, update the name of a guidance house to a new name. In this case you are changing the name from `Nevis` to `Ben Nevis`.

```sql
UPDATE Pupils
SET house = 'Ben Nevis'
WHERE house = 'Nevis';
```

c) **Delete Record**

On the `Pupil` database, delete a specific pupil record using the following SQL.

```sql
DELETE FROM Pupils
WHERE name = 'Bob Jordan';
```

[:material-database: Open the SQL workspace](https://onecompiler.com/sqlite/44rmmq4n5){: .inline-launch__link target="_blank" rel="noopener" }

## Task Two

[:material-database: Open the SQL workspace](https://onecompiler.com/sqlite/44rmmq4n5){: .inline-launch__link target="_blank" rel="noopener" }

Write the SQL code for each task below.

1. Write the SQL code that inserts a new record. ID is `6`, name is `Jack Fraser`, age is `16` and house is `Lochiel`.

2. Write the SQL code that inserts a new record. ID is `55`, name is `Liam MacRae`, age is `11` and house is `Rannoch`.

3. Write the SQL code that inserts a new record. ID is `7`, name is `Taylor Swift`, age is `14` and house is `Shiel`.

4. Write the SQL code that inserts a new record. ID is `8`, name is `Tom Green`, age is `18` and house is `Rannoch`.

5. Write the SQL code that inserts a new record. ID is `44`, name is `Iona MacDonald`, age is `16` and house is `Lochiel`.

6. Write the SQL code that will update a record. Update the house name from `Lochiel` to `Loch Ness`.

7. Write the SQL code that will update a record. Update the age from `13` to `13.5`.

8. Write the SQL code that will update a record. Update the name from `Bob Jordan` to `Liam Jordan`.

9. Write the SQL code that will delete a record. Delete the record with name `Eilidh Ralston`.

10. Write the SQL code that will delete a record. Delete the record with house `Shiel`.

11. Write the SQL code that will delete a record. Delete the record with `StudentNum` `2`.
